the word of the Lord which came to
Jeremiah the Prophet against the nations
against Egypt concerning the army of
Pharaoh nikko king of Egypt which was by
the river Euphrates in Kaka much and
which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon
defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim
the son of Josiah king of Judah order
the buckler and shield and draw near to
battle harness the horses and mount up
you horsemen stand forth with your
helmets polished the spears put on the
armor why have I seen them dismayed and
turned back their mighty ones are beaten
down
they have speedily fled and did not look
back for fear was all around do not let
the Swift flee away nor the mighty man
escape they will stumble and fall toward
the north by the river Euphrates
who is this coming up like a flood whose
waters move like the rivers Egypt rises
up like a flood and its waters move like
the rivers and he says I will go up and
cover the earth I will destroy the city
and its inhabitants
tomorrow horses and rage old chariots
and let the mighty men come forth the
Ethiopians and the Libyans who handle
the shield and the Lydians who handle
and bend the bow for this is the day of
the Lord God of hosts a day of vengeance
that he may avenge himself on his
adversaries
the sword shall devour it shall be
satiated and made drunk with their blood
for the Lord God of hosts has a
sacrifice in the North Country by the
river Euphrates go up to Gilead and take
balm Oh Virgin the daughter of Egypt in
vain you will use many medicines you
shall not be cured the nation's a third
of your shame and your cry has filled
the land for the mighty man has stumbled
against the mighty they both have fallen
together the word that the Lord spoke to
Jeremiah the Prophet how Nebuchadnezzar
king of Babylon would come and strike
the land of Egypt declare in Egypt and
proclaim in migdal proclaim in North and
in tarney's say stand fast and prepare
yourselves for the sword devours all
around you why are your valiant men
swept away they did not stand because
the Lord drove them away he made many
fall yes one fell upon another and they
said arise let us go back to our own
people and to the land of our nativity
from the oppressing sword they cried
their Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a
noise he has passed by the appointed
time as I live says the king whose name
is the Lord of Hosts surely as Tabor is
among the mountains and as
carmel-by-the-sea so he shall come o you
daughter dwelling in Egypt prepare
yourself to go into captivity for enough
shall be waste and desolate without
inhabitant
Egypt is a very pretty heifer but
destruction comes it comes from the
north also her mercenaries are in her
midst like fat bulls for they also are
turned back they have fled away together
they did not stand for the day of their
calamity had come upon them the time of
their punishment her noise shall go like
a serpent for they shall march with an
army and come against her with axes like
those who chop wood they shall cut down
her forest though it cannot be searched
because they are innumerable and more
numerous than grasshoppers the daughter
of Egypt shall be ashamed she shall be
delivered into the hand of the people of
the North the Lord of hosts the God of
Israel says behold I will bring
punishment on Ammon of no and Pharaoh
and Egypt with their gods and their
kings Pharaoh and those who trust in him
and I will deliver them into the hand of
those who seek their lives into the hand
of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and
the hand of his servants afterward it
shall be inhabited as in the days of old
says the Lord but do not fear o my
servant Jacob and do not be dismayed o
Israel for behold I will save you from
afar and your offspring from the land of
your captivity Jacob shall return have
rest and be at ease no one shall make
him afraid do not fear o Jacob my
servant says the Lord or I
with you for I will make a complete end
of all the nations to which I have
driven you but I will not make a
complete end of you I will rightly
correct you for I will not leave you
wholly unpunished
you